Jaguar has built powerful convertibles
in recent years not overly sporty ones
though the 2014 f-type is a different
breed the very British brand aims to
battle the best driving machines on the
planet just as the e-type did so very
long ago Enzo Ferrari himself considered
Jaguars etype one of the most beautiful
cars ever made production of that ended
in the mid 70s so if you consider the F
the successor to the e it's been nearly
a four-decade weight the voluptuous
lines of the classic are obviously not
part of the plan modern safety
regulations and changing tastes make for
a chiseled but beefy shape F is
rear-wheel drive the asymmetrical cabin
is clearly oriented towards the driver
standard seats are grippy with good
bolstering the optional 770 watt
meridian sound system is bliss but
really that is what you're going to want
to listen to all the time under the huge
hood a one-piece stamping by the way is
a supercharged three litre v6 that makes
380 horsepower in the S model I'm
driving
apparently the available 495 horse v8
sounds even better my neighbors love me
all engines are hooked up to an 8-speed
automatic with a fussy joystick selector
when driving the crisp gear changes seem
almost telepathic
the insulated fabric top takes 12
seconds to drop at speeds of up to 30
miles an hour
Jaguar claims zero to 60 happens in 4.8
seconds that's believable F types
riveted and bonded aluminum structure is
as stiff as a Brits upper lip so is the
ride quality f-type is not a soft comfy
Cruiser a dynamic suspension checks
damper rates 500 times a second to
eliminate body roll squat
and brake dive the start-stop system
that saves fuel is better done than most
it can be turned off
this F is EPA rated at 19 City 27
highway using premium fuel not that
owners will care wind management is
pretty good as you can see by my lightly
tasseled hair did I mention the sound
ah that makes me happy
so does cornering steering is hydraulic
it's easy to find the Jags lofty limits
without getting into trouble
I need a closed track to see how f-type
stacks up with Porsche 911 a smile on my
face signals it would be a pretty close
match by the way this happens at 60
miles an hour a cue that law enforcement
is sure to pick up on all this fun is
experienced in a cockpit stitched
together with the quality of a Prada
attache case F types door handles
fascinate everyone the climate system
and heated chairs can be cranked up to
roast appealing when motoring top-down
on this very English of days the user
interface is straightforward a rear-view
camera is not standard but should be
cabin storage is limited travel lightly
if you're thinking about selling f-type
to your spouse is even remotely
practical don't you'll only look stupid
that's all folks it's more about driving
fun than trunk space Jaguar stashes the
washer fluid and battery back here for
even weight distribution
rumor has it Jaguar is working on a
fixed roof coupe version but they won't
comment officially on that the insulated
fabric top is quite nice and keeps a lot
of road noise out lighter than a
retractable hardtop it helps to keep the
center of gravity low not so great for
keeping things secure though 87 grand
Plus those pesky taxes of license fees
will buy you this particular mid range s
model Jaguars quality reputation dogs it
it has improved but Porsche is still
miles ahead in most statistical rankings
really though a convertible jag is all
about emotional
and in that regard f-type is a sound
performer
I don't read many other reviews because
I like to assess a car without any
preconceived notions but I'm going to
guess this is one of the few video or
print that has no cat references or puns
whatsoever that folks takes discipline
that's my opinion of the 2014 Jaguar
f-type nice looking car great sounding
car if you want to see these reviews a
couple weeks earlier than you do here
remember I am now a contributor to the
New York Times so get up there website
alright that's driven I'm Tom Volk
rumor has it Jaguar is working on a
fixed roof coupe version but they won't
comment officially on that the insulated
fabric top is quite nice and keeps a lot
of road noise out lighter than a
retractable hardtop it helps to keep the
center of gravity low not so great for
keeping things secure though